Due to complicated manufacturing methods and lack of machinability, the
use of engineering ceramics is limited by the manufacturing processes used
to fabricate parts with intricate geometries. The 3D printing of polymers that
can be pyrolyzed into functional ceramics has recently been used to
significantly expand the range of geometries that can be manufactured, but
large shrinkage during pyrolysis has the potential to lead to cracking. In this
work, a method to additively manufacture particle-reinforced ceramic matrix
Composites are described. Specifically, stereolithography is used to crosslink a
resin comprised of acrylate and vinyl-functionalized siloxane oligomers with


dispersed SiC whiskers. After crosslinking, the part is pyrolyzed to amorphous SiOC while the SiC whiskers remain unaffected. Composite ceramics


shrink 37% while unreinforced parts shrink 42%; this significant reduction in


shrinkage improves part stability. Importantly, these ceramic matrix compo-
sites contain no visible porosity nor cracking on the microstructural level.


With the introduction of SiC, hardness increases from 10.8 to 12.1 GPa and
density decreases from 2.99 to 2.86 g cm3


. Finally, printed ceramic porous
structures, gears, and components for turbine blades are demonstrated.
Applying stereolithographic techniques to ceramic matrix composites, this
work may improve processing and properties of ceramics for applications
that require complex geometries.


1. Introduction
While additive manufacturing (a.k.a. 3D printing) is readily used
to fabricate various metallic and polymeric materials, fabrication
with ceramics is inherently difficult. Methods currently used to
3D print ceramics most often rely upon a sacrificial polymer
resin with suspended ceramic particulates; printed parts are
subsequently sintered at high temperatures where the ceramic particles permanently sinter together[1–3] or
laser sintered.[4,5] These structures are
plagued by porosity which is not often


uniform or well-controlled.[6] Conse-
quently, mechanical properties for struc-
tural uses are lacking, which severely limits


potential applications.
Recently, a handful of emerging studies
have explored the use of polymer-derived
ceramics (PDCs) in conjunction with
stereolithography.[7–11] PDCs are a class
of ceramics which have been pyrolyzed
from a pre-ceramic polymer at high
temperature (e.g., see recent reviews,[12,13]).
Specific PDCs can be tailored to exhibit
functional properties such as: electrical
conductivity,[14–16] piezo-resistivity,[17,18]
and chemical resistance,[19,20] among
others. Via 3D printing, PDCs can be
printed into complex forms where their
functional properties may be used for a
wide range of applications. One benefit of
using 3D printing PDCs is that resulting
ceramics have been described as “fully
dense” or lacking any porosity,[7] in contrast
the structures of more standard sintered
3D printed ceramics without any additional
processing can possess porosities near
65%.[21–24] While 3D printing of PDCs results in final ceramics
without obvious porosity, other methods of 3D printing ceramics
have also lead to final materials with high density fractions, such
as 3D printing via direct ink writing.[25] However, PDCs still
undergo large shrinkage during pyrolysis, which can lead to
cracking.
Particle-reinforced PDCs undergo reduced shrinkage and
cracking of the final ceramic material during pyrolysis, as
compared to unreinforced PDCs.[26,27] Furthermore, particle
reinforced PDCs can be formulated to tailor creep-resistance,
corrosion resistance, and mechanical properties.[28,29] If ceramic
matrix composites resulting from pyrolysis of particle reinforced
PDCs could be processed using 3D printing, the properties of the
printed final ceramic could be tuned to yield increased strength,
electrical conductivity, heat insulation, etc.  and be tailored to fit
application needs. Since the addition of reinforcement hinders
the initial polymerization process,[30] care must be taken to
ensure that any additive to the resin will still be able to be 3D
printed and will not cause under-polymerization and loss of
printing resolution. To date, no study has investigated the addition of ceramic particle reinforced preceramic polymer
composites for 3D printing via SLA printing.
The purpose of this study was to derive a preceramic polymer
system for use as a 3D printing resin that would result in a
high-quality polymer-derived ceramic reinforced with SiC
micronwhiskers. Using a siloxane precursor and the addition
of reinforcement in 3D printing resin, a 3D printable SiOC–SiC
whisker ceramic was fabricated and characterized. The
resulting 3D printed samples were formed into ceramics via


pyrolysis and characterized through a combination of ther-
mogravimetric analysis (TGA), Fourier-transform infrared


spectroscopy (FTIR), UV absorption spectroscopy, X-ray
diffraction (XRD), and electron microscopy. SiOC materials
can be utilized in processes requiring a high-temperature
reaction catalyst,[31,32] pressure sensors,[18] and as anodes in Li
batteries.[33,34] Pairing SiOC with a SiC filler can help reduce
cracking, shrinkage, and improve the ceramic yield after
pyrolysis.2. Results
Fabrication of the base resin was made up of four constituents:
an ene containing monomer with an average of six functional
groups (poly(vinylmethoxysiloxane) or VMS, Schematic 1), a
monomer with 2 acrylate functional groups (Poly-
(ethyleneglycol)-diacrylate or PEGDA, Schematic 2), as well as
comparatively small amounts of photoinitiator (Irgacure1 819),
and free radical scavenger (Irganox 1330TM) needed for


photopolymerization during 3D printing.[35] The two mono-
mers, VMS and PEGDA mix very well when shaken into a


translucent mixture by hand as the density and viscosity of both
oligomers are very similar. The free-radical scavenger and
photoinitiator were both soluble in the monomer solution and
straightforward to mix. Through a systematic study varying both
the free-radical scavenger and photoinitiator, the final resin


formulation utilized a ratio of free-radical scavenger to photo-
initiator ratio of 3:7 by weight; this ratio resulted in the most


distinct features for the 3D printed structures.
SiC whiskers were selected as a filler as they would have no
complex interaction with the PDC matrix and have been
previously investigated in traditional composite PDCs.[15] XRD
(Figure 1a) and laser scanning confocal microscopy (LSCM)
measurement of SiC whiskers confirmed material andmanufacturer dimension specifications, with whiskers approx-
imately 2 μm in diameter and having a length-to-diameter


aspect ratio of roughly 20 (Figure 1b). Most of the whiskers are
relatively straight; however, several were observed to have
curling or spiraled geometries while remaining intact. With the
addition of 0.5 wt% SiC whiskers into the base resin, no
apparent changes in the viscosity nor the strength of the
polymerized part were identified. The SiC whiskers maintained
suspension in the mixture for up to 12 h before naturally
settling. For all results shown here, printing was performed
within1 h of mixing.
A key parameter in stereolithography is the selection of the
energy used to cure the resin. Through FTIR, the chemical
functional groups’ reactions and structural changes of the
polymer system were observed for two different UV exposure
times of polymerization process in the base resin. Resins
polymerized at 1000, and 2000 ms were investigated which
corresponded to UV doses of 10.84 and 21.67 mJ cm2
,
respectively. Increasing the UV exposure dose was performed
to compare the level of crosslinking that can be influenced as afunction of exposure time. These tests were relevant to
understand the degree of crosslinking with the increase in
exposure time such that each layer of 3D printed material would
have a small unpolymerized surface such that the next layer
could bond well. Through FTIR of the resins (Figure 2) the major
observed peaks correspond to characteristic groups: C–H
stretching band 2947 to 2872 cm1


; C═O stretching band peak


at 1725 cm1
; C═C from the vinyl group in VMS at 1636 cm1
;
the summation of acrylate C═C and CH3 appears at 1407 cm1
;


Si–O–Si peak at 1188 cm1


; Si–O–C peak at 1063 cm1
; Si–C


peak at 809 cm1


. All of these bonds are present in the system
before polymerization. In the VMS-PEGDA resin system, the
VMS provides Si–O–C ceramic backbone and is crosslinked by
PEGDA through C═C bonds. Therefore, the C═C intensity
reflects the crosslinking degree during polymerization process.
With fewer C═C bond remaining at 1636 cm1


, this indicates
more VMS oligomers crosslinked, which is favorable for ceramic
formation. In other words, the lower the peak of the C═C bonds
from the vinyl group of the VMS at 1636 cm1 the more
crosslinking is found in the polymer.
The FTIR spectra of the polymerized VMS-PEGDA base resin
at exposure times of 1000 and 2000 ms are displayed in
Figure 2b. When the exposure dose was increased, both vinyl
group C═C intensity and acrylate functional group intensity
decreased, confirming additional crosslinking occurred between
VMS and PEGDA with increasing exposure time whereas other
bonds which do not react are not noticeably changed. Comparing
FTIR results of VMS-PEGDA with and without SiC whiskers
(Figure 2d), C═C bonds from both the vinyl group and acrylate
functional groups exhibited smaller normalized peak intensity in
the base resin than those in with SiC whisker reinforcement,


indicating the presence of SiC whiskers inhibited crosslinking
during the polymerization process.
The 3D printing of both materials was successful; however,


when printing the base resin, there were some areas of over-
polymerization, especially on the edges of the print with some


areas containing what looked like cured droplets jutting off of the
features. When comparing the printing process, it was noted that
the resin with the inclusion of SiC whiskers tended to result in
more defined structures with little areas of over-polymerization
(Figure 3). As such, the SiC reinforced resin was preferred for
most 3D printed parts.As the emission spectrum of the 3D printer optical source
contains a peak at 407 nm (Figure 4a), it is necessary for the
photoinitiator to have wavelength overlap with the absorption
spectrum such that they are activated by the printer’s light
source. The absorbance of the base resin  VMS and PEGDA in
1:1 ratio with photoinitiator and free-radical scavenger– and the
base resin with SiC whiskers are also shown in Figure 4a. In the
case of the VMS-PEGDA base resin, the absorbance has some
overlap with the spectrum of the 3D printer source, indicating
the photoinitiator could be readily activated by the light source. It
is not anticipated that the addition of the free-radical scavenger
plays a significant role in UV absorption as its function is only to
tailor the free-radicals generated by the photoinitiator and is only
added in a minuscule fraction. However, when SiC whiskers
were added, there was an obvious drop in transmittance from a
normalized value of 93.32% to 52.48%. This result is reasonable,
as the SiC whiskers absorb and scatter UV light. With the
influence of SiC whiskers, the polymerization depth is
significantly decreased from 117.5 μm with the base resin to
12.27 μm when using SiC reinforcement (Figure 4b). Once the
3D printing properties of the final resin systems were
investigated, the behavior of the pyrolysis process could be
effectively studied.


To understand the polymer to ceramic conversion process of
the pre-ceramic polymer, a sample of 10 mg of material was
pyrolyzed in a TGA in an argon atmosphere where the change in
mass and heat flow measurements were analyzed over the
course of the pyrolysis process (Figure 5). Initial testing was
performed to identify discontinuities in mass or heat flow which
indicates that the material was undergoing chemical change
(e.g., side groups of the polymer outgassing). Based on these
measurements, the temperatures at which these phenomena
occurred were held at isothermal dwell times to ensure the whole
system came to equilibrium. The explicit purpose was to allow
any reaction occurring to complete before further heating. The
mass loss and heat flow are shown in Figure 5, and the
temperature profile utilized in pyrolysis was determined via the
TGA results. When initially heated from room temperature there
is a steady mass loss beginning at 350 C terminating at about
500 C. Within this temperature range, the pre-ceramic polymer
fabricated with the base resin loses 63.1% of its initial mass
whereas the resin reinforced with SiC whiskers only loses 61.6%
of the initial mass. During preliminary investigations, there was
a heat flow dip at both 500 and 725 C. Here, this is represented
by in the severe drops in Figure 6 where the TGA temperature
was held isothermally. In the case of the heat flow change at
500 C, corresponding to the material’s transformation to an
inorganic material. At 725 C, there is again a change in heat flow
associated with the formation of amorphous SiOC. Not only does
the mass loss change with the addition of SiC whiskers but the
heat flow at higher temperatures is reduced slightly as the
changing matrix is mixed with stable SiC whiskers.
After the pyrolysis process, the polymer derived ceramic
sample is measured to calculate shrinkage and ceramic yield.
The base resin resulted in an average isotropic shrinkage and
ceramic yield of 43.1  0.38% and 36.9  0.31%, respectively,
over a study of 10 samples and in all three directions for
shrinkage measurements. Initially, shrinkage was measured in
three perpendicular directions, however, percent shrinkage was
noted to be isotropic and directional shrinkage values were
averaged. With SiC reinforcement, the shrinkage and ceramicyield are both impacted with a decrease in shrinkage to
37.2  0.38% and an increase in ceramic yield to 38.4  0.26%,
similar to the increased in retained mass noted in the TGA
results. With or without further processing the 3D printed PDC
may be used for such as small scale turbine blades or
applications requiring high surface area to volume ratios.
Several scale models of ceramic 3D printed geometries made
from this process can be seen in Figure 7. The three larger
turbine blades are manufactured from pyrolysis of the base
resin, where surface cracking of the polymer during post-curing
was a minor problem. The remainder of these samples are
manufactured from the SiC reinforced resins with 10 μm
resolution. Of particular interest are the wheel hub (far left)
which has 3D printed threads such that the appropriate axel can
be attached, demonstrating the ability to create machinery
elements, and the inverse FCC structure which demonstrates the
scales of accomplishable porosity using this 3D printed
methodology. However, it should be noted that this is not the
finest resolution possible.
Scattered X-rays detected via XRD of the resulting ceramics
show no atomic periodicity, as no narrow high-intensity peaks


are identified, and thus are concluded to be composed mainly
of amorphous SiOC (Figure 8a, 9a). The microscopy displayed
in Figure 8 shows the ceramic fabricated through pyrolysis at
multiple magnifications, where no visible porosity or cracking


is observed. From a mass-balance perspective, the composi-
tion of the final ceramic is estimated to be in the vicinity of


SiO8C20. While the results noted from the electron micros-
copy investigation of bulk materials initially appeared


continuous, fracture surfaces of the PDC made from resins
containing SiC whiskers showed that the SiC remains intact
through the pyrolysis process and can be noted jutting out of
the fracture surface (Figure 9b, c), confirming that a SiC
reinforced SiOC has been created via the 3D printing and
pyrolysis process. Additionally, no evident porosity is noted
within the final ceramic. One representative SiC whisker
jutting from the SiOC matrix was imaged (Figure 9c) and
while it appeared to be curled  not unlike some of the
whiskers investigated by LSCM (Figure 1a)  it did not
fracture along with the matrix of the composite and remained
within one side of the matrix.
The density of the final ceramics was determined via
Archimedes’ principle and were calculated to be 2.99 to
2.86 g cm3 for the base SiOC and SiOC–SiC ceramics,
respectively. Despite the drop in density, Vickers hardness of
the SiOC  as determined via a digital micro hardness tester
increased from an equivalent of 10.8  0.35 GPa to 12.1  0.29
GPa with the inclusion of the SiC reinforcement.
3. Discussion
The addition of SiC particles into polymer derived ceramics has
been shown to mitigate both mass and shrinkage in addition to


aiding to reduce cracking.[11] Therefore, 3D printing a polymer-
derived ceramic reinforced with SiC whiskers was investigated.


SiC was chosen as the reinforcement due to its high-temperaturestability.[36–38] Through this process, research goals of reducing
shrinkage and mass loss were achieved. In addition, the
whiskers added a degree of absorption which aided in overall
printing definition. This was accomplished by using the resin
described in a constituent ratio where VMS would be the
limiting factor as the acrylate side groups more readily reacts
with itself.[39,40] From a 1:1 molar basis, the ratio of the
monomers would result in weight ratio between VMS to PEDGA
as 1.39:1. As VMS is a silicon-backbone containing polymer, it is
anticipated that this ratio would produce a material with higher
ceramic yield corresponding to the higher composition of Si in
the system. Despite this, with the reaction rate of the PEGDA, it
is anticipated that the there is a higher relative concentration of
acrylates bonding to other acrylates than the vinyl group.


However, as many photopolymer 3D printing resins are acrylate-
based, the rate of reaction may aid with the printing process as a


whole.
Varying ratios of free-radical scavenger and photoinitiators,
the optimal ratio was found through a tailored systematic study


which reduced over-polymerization by increasing the free-
radical scavenger  which aided in localizing the reaction.


However, a balance of photoinitiator was required to ensure
polymerization occurred and sufficient polymerization depths
during 3D printing could be achieved. From SLA printing


theory, there must be a small layer of under-polymerized
material at the outer edge of each layer such that the next layer
can easily bond[35] and with increasing exposure time this
thickness of the unpolymerized material is minimalized. As the
settings in the printer are present and involved to determine


independently, the resin formulation needed to be experimen-
tally derived to ensure proper printing definitions utilizing the


given pre-defined constraints of the 3D printer: exposure time,
laser intensity, and laser speeds. As noted in the FTIR results, a
minor increase in exposure time decreases the peaks of the
C═C bonds found in the VMS functional groups (Figure 2b),
indicating an increased degree of crosslinking. As such,
determining the photoinitiator and free-radical scavenger ratio
was an iterative process. The process of adjusting the ratio of
these two essential chemicals was repeated until a clear
structure could be printed.
Within the context of the photoinitiator, the concentration
cannot be too high or the prescribed exposure times by the
printer would initiate a nearly full polymerization leading to
several issues. The next layer could potentially not adhere to the


previous leading to a premature print failure or over-
polymerization  causing ill-defined polymerization in the


x-y dimensions of the printer  would occur effecting print
resolution. In the case of the VMS-PEGDA reaction, a ratio of0.3 to 0.7 wt% (free-radical scavenger: photoinitiator) was
determined to be optimal through these parameters and
utilized for 3D printing. However, the x-y resolution of the


samples was not optimized with the photoinitiator to free-
radical scavenger ratio alone and was further aided by the


addition of the SiC reinforcement. Figure 3 displays the degree
of over-polymerization in the base resin which is mitigated by


the addition of SiC in the filled resin, where there is little over-
polymerization when printed with identical settings. This is


likely due to the printer setting being better suited to the
penetration depth of the SiC resin, using an SLA printer with
adjustable settings, the over-polymerization in the base resin
could be mitigated further. This is typically achieved by
determining a working curve of penetration depth as a function
of increasing energy dose,[35,41] however with limited settings
on the 3D printer to be adjusted, such a study could not be
related to the printing system.
Except for the definite decrease in the C═C bonds in the vinyl
functional group with both increase in exposure time and the
addition of the SiC whiskers, there was little change in the
bonds found in the backbone of the Si-containing polymer. This
indicates that increase in exposure time and, therefore,
crosslinking did not have an effect on the bonds that influence


pyrolysis. In the case of the reinforcement addition, cross-
linking is inhibited due to the physical blocking of light during


the polymerization process. Despite the necessity for lower
general crosslinking needed for proper 3D printing, highly
crosslinked pre-ceramic polymers result in less cracked or
warped PDCs.[42–44]
SiC whiskers increased the UV absorption and scattering in
the 407 nm regime by an order of magnitude (Figure 4a) which


aided the printing process as a whole, alleviating minor over-
polymerization and resolution issues. Due to the increase in


absorbance and the increase in resolution during 3D printing,
this indicates that the SiC whiskers act as a de facto pigment.
Penetration depths have been calculated and expressed in
Figure 4b, by using Equation (1) at no UV absorber condition,[45]
and Equation (2) at with UV absorber condition.[46]
Dp 1⁄4 1=2:3ðeI1⁄2 Þ ð I 1Þ
Dp 1⁄4 1=2:3ðeI1⁄2 þð I eA1⁄2 Þ ð A 2Þ
where eI, eA are the extinction coefficients of photoinitiator and
UV absorber; [I], [A] are the molar concentration of photoinitiator
and UV absorber.
This effect serves the same general function as a UV
absorber where the purpose of UV absorbers used in SLA 3D
printers has been to hinder polymerization depth.[47] Using a
reinforced resin did not lead to any adverse interactions during
polymerization or of the resultant polymer. These results
indicate that SiC particles may act as suitable replacements for
chemical UV absorbers in certain 3D printing resins. The
function of many of these chemicals is to absorb the UV
radiation preferentially to all other constituents and dissipate
the energy as low-level heat,[48] hindering the formation of free
radicals by reducing UV contact with the photoinitiator. In
contrast, the SiC whiskers  which have yet to be used in SLA


printing of PDCs  block the passage of UV, inhibiting
polymerization.[49] The addition of solid particles in SLA
printing has been of particular research interest in the field of
polymer matrix composite fabrication.[50] Despite the decrease
in crosslinking of the reinforced resin (Figure 2d), the
introduction of ceramic particles into PDCs has been found


to reduce the effect of necessary cross-linking in the pre-
ceramic for the polymer to retain its shape  as the particles


maintain shape and hinder the flow of the softened polymer
during pyrolysis.[51,52]
The results of the TGA are as expected compared to several
other studies of siloxane pyrolysis.[53–56] The initial mass loss can
be attributed to the removal of much of the PEGDA side groups,
in particular, the numerous oxygens found in the backbone,
contributing to much of the mass loss. Concurrently, removal of
some hydrocarbons also occurs (specifically CH4


[57]) and likely
reorganization of the Si–O, Si–C, and Si–H bonds through
various reactions[58]  contributing to the change in heat flow.
Beyond the initial stages, the heat flow change at 725 C is
attributed to cleavage processes of C–H, Si–O, and Si–C bonds as
the material transforms to an amorphous SiOC with residual
free carbon.[57] During this stage dissociation of cleaving Si–C
and C-H bonds results in the removal of additional CH4 and H2
from the system.
The XRD of the ceramics agrees with literature in that the
resulting SiOC is amorphous. Comparing fabrication of
typical SiOC at temperatures around 1000 C, it is well
established that this material should be amorphous.[59] XRD
plots of the base and SiC reinforced resins look nearly
identical. Some trace of SiC peaks might be expected within
the ceramics that are reinforced with the whiskers. However,
at 1.45% volume fraction of the whiskers to the matrix of the
ceramics, it is likely that the SiC peaks are on the same order
as the noise in the data and, therefore, cannot be detected. It is
clear from the SEM that the SiC whiskers remain intact and
separate from the ceramic matrix and are unharmed during
pyrolysis. Therefore, not only do reinforcements added to 3D
printing resins affect print absorbance and quality but in the
printing of preceramic polymers, these reinforcements can be
used to impact the shrinkage and properties of the final
ceramic, both of which may be beneficial to future
applications.
The reduction in shrinkage is as expected with the SiC
reinforcement hindering shrinkage during pyrolysis. With the
notable exception of shrinkage in the material, ceramics made
from the base resin or those with SiC whiskers appear nearly
identical. As the shrinkage was uniform in all three dimensions,
these ceramics look like scaled models of their preceramic stage
with no discernible difference in shape retention and no
cracking from internal stresses of dimension mismatch during
pyrolysis. Upon SEM investigation, it is noted that there was no
apparent porosity nor cracking throughout the entire resulting
ceramic. With relatively small or few pores, this makes the
ceramic stronger and more resistant to fracture as ceramics are
inherently flaw dependent with pores often acting as nucleation
sites for failure. As the resulting ceramic made from the base
resin shows no obvious cracking throughout, it is not possible to
confirm that the SiC reinforcement aided in crack reduction
during pyrolysis despite the fact that ceramic reinforcements inPDCs have been proven to have this effect.[60] Furthermore, the
inclusion of the SiC whisker reinforcement appears to have a
relatively strong bond with the ceramic matrix as the whiskers do
not seem to pull out upon fracture of the final ceramic,
indicating that the SiC whiskers are separate entities within the
ceramic.
Despite the apparent lack of porosity in the final ceramics,
there must be a small degree of undetectable voids or cracking.
The density of the SiOC reinforced with SiC whiskers drops
slightly from 2.99 to 2.86 g cm3


. This drop in density can
account for the large decrease in shrinkage with only marginal
amounts of SiC whiskers added initially. Regardless of the drop
in density, mechanical properties of the reinforced ceramic still
improves well beyond the standard deviation of the measured
hardness values of the SiOC. The hardness values of SiOC
materials has been previously determined to be in the regime of
what was calculated for the final ceramics in the present study[55]
and as such are as expected.
4. Conclusion
Throughout the study, a siloxane-based pre-ceramic polymer and
the resulting pyrolyzed SiOC fabricated via stereolithography 3D
printing created both a SiOC polymer-derived ceramic and
SiOC–SiC ceramic matrix composite which was characterized.


The photopolymerizable resin was comprised of a vinylmethoxysiloxane homopolymer and poly(ethyleneglycol)-diacrylate and


was studied with and without the addition of SiC whiskers as a
reinforcement. The UV absorbance of the resin with SiC
whiskers added was increased by an order of magnitude when
compared to the base resin. Additionally, the definition of 3D
printed samples was increased in the presence of SiC
reinforcement. Both the base polymer and polymer matrix
composite’s pyrolysis behavior were analyzed via TGA and
subsequently shown to be an amorphous SiOC ceramic via XRD.
Not only did the SiC whiskers act as a de facto UV absorber
during photopolymerization, but also hindered shrinkage to an
average of 37.2% from the base resin’s 43.1% shrinkage after
pyrolysis. The final ceramic yields were measured to be, on
average, 36.9% and 38.4% for the base resin and those which
used SiC reinforcement, respectively. Investigating the SiOC 3D
printed ceramics via microscopy, there was no obvious porosity
or cracking within the structures, and SiC whiskers are clearly
embedded in the SiOC matrix.